# What is this project about?

### TL;DR

Influenced by bullet journaling and the Zettelkasten method of note-taking, the
system manages atomic notes that can be journaled daily. Notes can be tasks,
with a "done" status. Notes can be promoted to permanent or archived and tasks
can be reviewed during migrations. Notes can be tagged to form collections.
Questions are specially marked as such. Notes can be related to others by
similarity or origin.

---

In a way, this is the result of my struggle of structuring my ideas and my brain
in general. I know there are a lot of _smart people_, that invented really
_smart methods_ to help people organize and structure their thoughts. These are
fantastic, really anything that allows someone to really learn and avoid the
illusion of competence is worthy of some praise.

I've definitely heard of most of them and tried a fair bit as well. Every time I
have a better projection and organization of my ideas in the real world. But I'm
simply not where I want it to be, yet. There are so many things I dream and
imagine that might make things better that it feels like an obligation to at
least try.

I am a strong believer in imperfection, that everything that has ever been
created is necessarily imperfect. This is why I don't think that I've come up
with a perfect system, even for myself solely. But I think this project will be
the next step in organizing my thoughts and ideas, and hopefully other people
with the same struggle.

Where does this project draw inspiration from? Bullet journaling, firstly. It is
a fantastic idea, it blew my mind when I saw it for the first time. This is for
the thoughts that are like tasks or small journal entries. Being able to
organize these types of thoughts is essential because they are what makes a
system a daily habit.

About tasks, this system is not meant to do things like _remind you to go to the
bank_, there will be no alarms and no due dates. Tasks in this system are meant
to represent the next steps you ought to take in order to progress in something,
so you don't forget about it. The age of a task is a very important piece of
information, it conveys how much you've avoided doing that task compared to
others.

Collections are now changed into tags thanks to avoiding the limits of a
physical paper page. Tags categorize an unlimited number of notes. They can be
useful for school topics, sections in a job, or categories of one's self.
Journaling notes could help you keep track of the physical or mental health
state of a user.

This kind of thought is what intersects with my second influence, the
Zettelkasten Method. This method proposes three different kinds of notes, and I
consider the journaling thoughts previously mentioned to be "Fleeting" thoughts.
These kinds of notes must be reevaluated and promoted to a "Permanent" note, or
simply archived. Additionally, open tasks can be discarded or conserved during
the migration process.

The third kind, "Literature" notes are things you are consuming content for
knowledge, they are the true notes. Things you learn in classes, conferences,
courses, books, etc. Questions must be labeled as such because they, by
themselves, are important pieces of information. Knowledge frequently comes in
the form of a question and its answers.

The directional system of relating notes to each other is also present. Notes
"west" to others are similar. Notes "east" of others are opposite. Notes on the
"north" are the ones that originated this one. And the notes on the "south" are
the ones this note leads to. It is an extremely clever and visual system that
will be used in this system.
